---
layout: post
title: Update 
comments: true
date:   2020-05-31_10:40:29 
categories: general
tags: ['Genera']
image:
description:
header:
header-caption:
---

Just a quick update - I've been dealing with [Cluster Headaches](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cluster_headache) (which [I've written about before]({% post_url 2019-09-06-More-Health %}#health)) and prodrome/postdrome symptoms for 2 weeks. I've been extremely sensitive to sound and light, and haven't even touched an instrument or DAW in that time.

My wife covered the windows in aluminum foil and I managed to sit on my laptop (with minimum brightness, viewing at an angle) to get a variety of coding tasks done both for this site and elsewhere. (Eventually you learn to work in bursts and keep notes, and it's a great way to stay sane.)

However, there's been no music, woodworking or anything worth writing about. Nor have I been able to finish any of the 75%+ complete articles I have in my backlog. Worry not though, [there is content coming](http://www.pspaudioware.com/plugins/dynamic_processors/psp_infinistrip/).

These headaches shouldn't last too long, and I've had 6-8 hour symptom free periods for the last few days, so I'm hoping that's it for at least a few months.

Not looking for sympathy or even concern. I can cope, and everyone around me is awesome (especially my wife). I did have a number of people that were concerned about my absence from the admiralbumblebee realm and I wanted to "check-in".


p.s. Yes I've been to the doctor. I've tried the bevy of mainstream and alternative medicines. If you want to suggest something then feel free. I'm open to discussion.

---

**If you have any questions or comments, please comment below! I read every comment and respond to most.** No registration is necessary to comment, so don't be shy.

