---
layout: ['post', 'reader']
title: Reaper Day 18
comments: true
date:   2020-12-05_19:57:15 
categories: music
tags: ['Reaper', 'Reaper Configuration']
image:
description: REAPER Day 14
header:
header-caption:
series: reaperover
---

More REAPER setting changes! Maybe one day I'll get around to using the thing :)

Currently using REAPER 6.18

{% assign reaperover = site.posts | where: "series", "reaperover" | sort: 'date' %}
<ul>
{% for my_page in reaperover %} 
    {% if page.url != my_page.url and my_page.layout != "reader" %}
        <li><a class="page-link" href="{{ my_page.url | prepend: site.baseurl }}">{{ my_page.title | split: '-' | last }}</a></li>
    {% endif %}
{% endfor %}
</ul>
<!--more-->


# Contents
{:.no_toc}
* TOC
{:toc}

# Default Project Template

Some of these changes are project specific changes. This means that I need to create a project template. My _default_ template looks something like this:

* Drums
  * Kick Drum
    * Kick Inside
    * Kick Outside
    * Kick Replace
  * Snares
    * Main Snare
    * Main Snare Replace
    * Side Snare
    * Side Snare Replace
  * Toms
    * High Rack
    * High Rack Replace
    * Mid Rack
    * Mid Rack Replace
    * Floor
    * Floor Replace
  * Distance Mics
    * Stereo Room
    * Stereo Overheads
* Bass Guitar
  * Bass Rig Aggressive
  * Bass Rig Modern
  * Bass DI
* Guitars
  * Guitar Rig 1 Aggressive
  * Guitar Rig 1 Tweed
  * Guitar Rig 2 Aggressive
  * Guitar Rig 2 Tweed
  * Bassman Mic
  * Bassman Load Box
  * Friedman Mic
  * Friedman Load Box
  * Tweed Mic
  * Tweed Load Box
* Vocals
  * Sm7
  * Ribbon
* Piano
* Strings
* Horns
  
The "Rig" tracks are setup with effects to achieve a specific tone.

The "Replace" tracks have a drum replacement setup, which isn't always used.

This is a very fast and dirty setup. My last template evolved to around 250 tracks in a couple weeks.

## Project Template Setup

* `Preferences->Project->When creating new projects, use the following project file as a template:` - to my project location.
* **New Project** `Preferences->General->Startup Settings->Open project(s) on startup:`

## Project Settings

* Max that all of my devices support
  * *48000* `Project Settings->Project Sample Rate`
* My preferred starting tempo.
  * **100* `Project Settings->Project BPM`
* I have a fast computer, let's near max all the resampling parameters.
  * **HQ (512pt Sinc)** PlaybackResample Mode
  * **HQ (512pt Sinc)** Render Resample Mode
* Almost all of my stretch marker uses is on drums, so prefer transient aware stretch markers:
  * **Transient-optimized** `Project Settings->Stretch marker mode:`
* I prefer the slight 'bonus width' from a light pan law, and the cleaner center channel that comes from passing mono signals down to stereo.
  * **-3.0** `Advanced->Pan law:`
* I like my projects to give me some leeway at the start of the project for things to happen, and the downbeat to not be on bar 3 or 4.
  * **-4** `Project Settings->Project start measure`
* Files should _always_ be with their project!
  * **Copy media to project path** `Project Settings->On import of media to project`
* This is a controversial one, but the first two DAWs I used let overlapping clips make sound, and I became used to that. I'm so used to it that it _still_ catches me off-guard in DAWs that do not allow it. REAPER allows it, and I think it's a much easier way to work while recording.
  * **Items always mix** `Item mix Behaviour:`


# Mixer Behaviour Changes

Reason followed by setting:

* I am a "scroller". I use my mousewheel to scroll in every other application, but REAPER defaults to mousewheel controlling faders. When scrolling horizontally in the mixer, it's possible to accidentally mousewheel a fader or some other parameter. I don't want that to ever change the mix, only scroll.
  * `Editing Behaviour->Mouse`
    * **OFF** `Ignore mousewheel on all faders`
    * **OFF** `Ignore mousewheel on track panel faders`
    * **OFF** `Ignore mousewheel on transport edit fields`
    
# Editing Changes

* I've had more issues tracking down fades that I didn't put in place, than problems I've had solved by automatic fades. I prefer to add fades myself so I know exactly what's happening.
  * `Project->Media Item Defaults`
    * **OFF** `Create automatic fade-in/faed-out for new items, length:`
* Time between hearing a take-fx change and hearing it is affected by this setting. I set this low as reasonable.
  * **5ms** `Preferences->Audio->Buffering->Media buffer size when per-take FX UI open`
* I like to use REAPER's free item positioning. This allows overlapping items to be segregrated into  lanes. I find that this "Tracks in a track list" setup much easier to edit in.
  * `Options: Show overlapping media items in lanes (when room)` (Action List)
* I don't like the explicit group selection method where you can still select a single track when there's a group. If I have a group made, then I always want it working as a group until I turn it off.
  * `Options: Selecting one grouped item selects group` (Action List)
  
# Performance

* I want to see pretty things.
  * **30hz** `Preferences->Audio->Recording->Show preview of recording items while recording, update frequency:` 

# Workflow

* I use this format because it makes it easier to sort by track location, then track time.
  * **$tracknumber-$track-$month$day$year_$hour12-$minute$ampm**`Preferences->Audio->Recording->Filename format for recorded files`
* I move time selection around while editing, but I am often looping an adjacent or overlapping section of audio. Loop and Selection can't be linked for me.
  * **OFF** `Preferences->Editing Behaviour->Link loop points to time selection`

## Visual

* I have a difficult time seeing the selection bars, so I use these settings to make it more obvious:
  * **Solid edge on time selection highlight** `Preferences->Appearance`
  * **Solid edge on loop selection** `Preferences->Appearance`
  * **4** `Preferences->Appearance->Play Cursor Width`
  * **1x** `Preferences->Appearance->Pixels between items on adjacent track`
* Reaper's Spectrogram view mode is awesome. I find that it lets me recognize what's in an item much better than a simple peak file.
  * `View: Show peaks display settings` (Action List)
    * **Spectral Peaks** `Display Mode`
    * **2.9** `Noise Threshold`
    * Slide `Red` to **80hz**
    * **Scale Peaks by Square Root** ``.. menu``
    * **Rectify Peaks** ``.. menu``
* It's 2020 still, continuous scrolling is still the way to go.
  * `View: Continuous scrolling during playback` (Action List)

## Takes

* I use the Takes system extensively. This means switching between takes frequently audition which part is ideal. There's a lag to this that seems to be affected by the following setting. It also affects the time after moving the cursor that you hear audio, so I set it as low as I feel comfortable with
  * **10ms** `Preferences->Audio->Buffering->Media buffer size:`
* Takes in lanes is disgusting. It shows you a mess that you never really need to see. My workflow is to act like there's an onion to peel, not a tetris game I need to reverse.
  * **OFF** `Options: Show all takes in lanes (when room)` (Action List)
  

# Meta

This post took:

* XX hours to do
* YY hours to do
