---
layout: ['post', 'reader']
title: Health
comments: true
date:   2021-01-30_11:29:25 
categories: general
tags: ['Health']
image:
description:
header:
header-caption:
visible: false
---

On November 30th, I partially tore 3 ligaments in my right foot.

[My current health state]({% post_url 2019-09-06-More-Health %}) has lead me to develop [Foot Drop](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Foot_drop). I stumble somewhat frequently and shuffle my feet when I walk, and it's been strongly suggested that I begin to use a walker. (I already use a cane)

When attempting to step up out of the studio I tripped, turned my ankle, rammed it into the step and **OUCH**.


Severe sensorimotor polyneuropathy complicates injury recovery. I can walk with minimal pain where a 'normal' person might be on the ground wretching in pain. The lack of pain increase the ease of being remiss about caring for my injury. Only a few days ago I took off my sock to be greeted by a topology might be mistaken for the [Moeraki Boulders](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moeraki_Boulders). I had walked maybe a total of 10 minutes that day unassisted, without my walker boot, and exacerbated the injury.

My studio is _not_ setup for low-mobility, _and_ I start nearly all of my song ideas on drums. I am not a MIDI user primarily, and REAPER in particular has a MIDI workflow that I abhor. The result is that I've spent very little time in the studio lately. [^1]

Same goes for my woodshop. (That's right, I rarely use MIDI in the workshop either.)

I am under doctor's care. I'll be fitted for a custom orthotic in the next coming days, and beginning physical therapy shortly.

I've been dealing with it by spending time working on my [Talon Setup](https://admiralbumblebee.com/music/2021/01/18/Reaper-Day-24.html), [my text editing setup](https://github.com/admiralbumblebee/BeeMacs) and reading. Meanwhile any further posts are on hold until I can regain some mobility and overcome this minor depression that it has spurred on.

[^1]: I spent some time trying to improve this last week by moving around some items, and most certainly ended up making my injury worse.
